Across the plain, in the twilight, rode Flann with his noble guest-friends 
by his side, and his hunting train behind him. They had hunted all day in 
the woods to the south of the plain—on foot, as the old Irish custom was, 
while their horses grazed free in the forest glades, and the gillies 
guarded their masters’ trappings. Now, weary of limb themselves, 
they were astride their fresh steeds, and the miles that lay between 
them and the banqueting hall within the white Dún above the Liffey 
were miles of soft, springy turf. Even the trappers felt their heavy 
burdens light, as their feet touched it. They raced in time to the 
joyous concert of the beagles, and the tinkling of the horse-bells—every 
man of them with his great wolf-dog at his side.
The red sunset filled the West, and, in the glow of it, splendid 
mantles—purple and yellow, and green, and red—were yet 
more splendid. Gleams of fire were struck from great jewelled 
brooches, from the gold on bits and bridles, from richly-wrought 
horse-cloths. Flann himself, a glowing splendid figure, rode at 
the head of that splendid company, the pride of life in his heart, 
and crowning his haughtily carried head.
They came to a point from which a great oak tree was visible. 
It seemed to Flann, all at once, as if another hand than his were 
laid on the bridle, and his horse were being urged out of its 
straight course for the home stable. He lifted his echlasc, and 
with it tried to turn the horse’s head back again. But in vain. 
One way only the horse would go, and that was towards the 
great oak tree, which spread a wide dark net against the red 
background of the sunset.
“Let it thus be,” said Flann, yielding. “Let us lay the wolf’s 
head at the holy maiden’s feet, that she may know how her 
cattle may henceforth graze in peace.” He called out the 
word to his followers, and presently they were all—horsemen, 
and runners, and dogs—thundering across the turf due 
westward.
They came to the door of the Lios, which surrounded the 
cells of the holy maiden, Brigid, and her companions. 
“Knock loudly,” cried Flann; and a gillie stooped and 
found the knocker in a niche by the door, and struck the 
wood heavily with it.
The sound of the sliding bolt followed speedily. The 
door opened, and a white figure stood framed in the 
door-porch.
“Prince Flann,” said a woman’s clear voice, with a note 
of wonder in it, “a blessing on thee and on thy company. 
Is it aught of ill befallen Etain, thy wife, which brings thee 
so late to the door of Brigid’s cell?”